jbct-cli/src/main/resources/ai-tools/skills/fix-all/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: fix-all
description: Systematically find and fix ALL issues in the codebase. Thorough, relentless, complete.
---

# Fix All Issues

Your mission: Find and fix **every single issue** in the codebase. No exceptions. No shortcuts.

## Execution Protocol

1. **Discovery Phase**
   - Run all available checks: linting, formatting, type checking, tests
   - Collect every warning, error, and issue
   - Create exhaustive list of problems to fix

2. **Systematic Resolution**
   - Fix issues one by one, starting with errors before warnings
   - After each fix, verify it doesn't introduce new issues
   - Track progress - mark each issue as resolved

3. **Verification Phase**
   - Re-run all checks after fixes
   - If new issues appear, add them to the list and fix them
   - Repeat until zero issues remain

4. **Completion Criteria**
   - All linters pass with zero warnings
   - All tests pass
   - All formatting checks pass
   - No remaining TODOs or FIXMEs (unless explicitly excluded)

## Mindset

This is a completeness challenge. Partial fixes are not acceptable. Either ALL issues are resolved, or the task is incomplete.

Be thorough. Be relentless. Don't stop until the codebase is clean.

Commit message:

feat(slice): add multi-artifact packaging for slice modules
- Add per-slice manifest generation (META-INF/slice/*.manifest)
- Add PackageSlicesMojo for jbct:package-slices goal
- Add InstallSlicesMojo for jbct:install-slices goal
- Add DeploySlicesMojo for jbct:deploy-slices goal
- Add SliceManifest model class in jbct-core
- Refactor factory generation with local proxy records
- Remove separate ProxyClassGenerator (now inline in factory)
- Add comprehensive slice processor tests (12 tests)

jbct-cli/src/main/resources/ai-tools/skills/fix-all/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: fix-all
description: Fix ALL issues found in the preceding review. Thorough, relentless, complete.
---

# Fix All Issues

Your mission: Fix **every single issue** identified in the preceding review. No exceptions. No shortcuts.

## Prerequisites

This skill is used AFTER running a review (e.g., `/jbct-review`, code review, or similar). The issues are already known from the review output in conversation context.

## Execution Protocol

1. **Issue Collection**
   - Extract all issues from the preceding review output
   - Create a todo list with every issue to fix
   - Prioritize: errors before warnings, blocking before cosmetic

2. **Systematic Resolution**
   - Fix issues one by one using appropriate agent (e.g., `jbct-coder`)
   - After each fix, mark the issue as resolved
   - Move to next issue immediately

3. **Verification**
   - After all issues are fixed, run the same review again
   - If new issues appear, add them to the list and fix them
   - Repeat until zero issues remain

4. **Completion Criteria**
   - All issues from the original review are resolved
   - Verification review passes with no new issues

## Mindset

Partial fixes are not acceptable. Either ALL issues are resolved, or the task is incomplete.

Be thorough. Be relentless. Don't stop until every issue is fixed.
